Architecture content (#3156)
dotnet/docs-aspire: docs/fundamentals/app-host-overview.md

## Define the app model

.NET Aspire enables you to efficiently build, provision, deploy, configure, test, run, and monitor your distributed applications. These capabilities are powered by an _app model_, which defines the resources in your .NET Aspire solution and their interconnections.

The app model is more than just a list of resources—it represents the complete topology of your application. This includes the relationships between resources, their dependencies, and their configurations. Resources can include projects, executables, containers, external services, and cloud resources that your application relies on.

In your [.NET Aspire app host project](#app-host-project), your `Program` file defines your app model:

```csharp
var builder = DistributedApplication.CreateBuilder(args);

// Add resources to the app model

builder.Build().Run();
```

> When you call <xref:Aspire.Hosting.DistributedApplication.CreateBuilder*?displayProperty=nameWithType>, you get an instance of <xref:Aspire.Hosting.IDistributedApplicationBuilder>, which is used to configure your app model. This builder provides methods to add resources, define dependencies, and set up the overall structure of your application. After you've add your desired resources, you call `Build` to create the app model. The [templates](../fundamentals/aspire-sdk-templates.md) include code that chains a call to <xref:Aspire.Hosting.IDistributedApplicationBuilder.Build>—which returns an <xref:Aspire.Hosting.DistributedApplication> instance, then call <xref:Aspire.Hosting.DistributedApplication.Run>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you call <xref:Aspire.Hosting.DistributedApplication.CreateBuilder*?displayProperty=nameWithType>, you get an instance of <xref:Aspire.Hosting.IDistributedApplicationBuilder>, which is used to configure your app model. This builder provides methods to add resources, define dependencies, and set up the overall structure of your application. After you've added resources, call `Build` to create the app model. The [templates](../fundamentals/aspire-sdk-templates.md) include code that chains a call to <xref:Aspire.Hosting.IDistributedApplicationBuilder.Build>—which returns an <xref:Aspire.Hosting.DistributedApplication> instance, and then calls <xref:Aspire.Hosting.DistributedApplication.Run>.
```
